OUT OF SEASON


On the four lira he had earned by spading the hotel garden he got
quite drunk. He saw the young gentleman coming down the path and
spoke to him mysteriously. The young gentleman said he had not eaten
yet but would be ready to go as soon as lunch was finished. Forty
minutes or an hour.

At the cantina near the bridge they trusted him for three more
grappas because he was so confident and mysterious about his job for
the afternoon. It was a windy day with the sun coming out from behind
clouds and then going under in sprinkles of rain. A wonderful day for
trout fishing.

The young gentleman came out of the hotel and asked him about the
rods. Should his wife come behind with the rods? Yes, said Peduzzi,
let her follow us. The young gentleman went back into the hotel and
spoke to his wife. He and Peduzzi started down the road. The young
gentleman had a musette over his shoulder. Peduzzi saw the wife, who
looked as young as the young gentleman and was wearing mountain boots
and a blue beret, start out to follow them down the road carrying the
fishing rods unjointed one in each hand. Peduzzi didn’t like her to
be way back there. Signorina, he called, winking at the young
gentleman, come up here and walk with us. Signora come up here. Let
us all walk together. Peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down the
street of Cortina together.

The wife stayed behind, following rather sullenly. Signorina, Peduzzi
called tenderly, come up here with us. The young gentleman looked
back and shouted something. The wife stopped lagging behind, and
walked up.

Everyone they met walking through the main street of the town Peduzzi
greeted elaborately. _Buon’ di Arturo!_ Tipping his hat. The bank
clerk stared at him from the door of the Fascist café. Groups of
three and four people standing in front of the shops stared at the
three. The workmen in their stone-powdered jackets working on the
foundations of the new hotel looked up as they passed. Nobody spoke
or gave any sign to them except the town beggar, lean and old with a
spittle thickened beard, who lifted his hat as they passed.

Peduzzi stopped in front of a store with the window full of bottles
and brought his empty grappa bottle from an inside pocket of his old
military coat. A little to drink, some marsala for the Signora,
something, something to drink. He gestured with the bottle. It was a
wonderful day. Marsala, you like marsala, Signorina? A little
marsala?

The wife stood sullenly. You’ll have to play up to this, she said. I
can’t understand a word he says. He’s drunk isn’t he?

The young gentleman appeared not to hear Peduzzi. He was thinking
what in hell makes him say Marsala. That’s what Max Beerbohm drinks.

_Geld,_ Peduzzi said finally, taking hold of the young gentleman’s
sleeve. _Lire._ He smiled reluctant to press the subject but needing
to bring the young gentleman into action.

The young gentleman took out his pocket book and gave him a ten lire
note. Peduzzi went up the steps to the door of the Speciality of
Domestic and Foreign Wines shop. It was locked.

It is closed until two, someone passing in the street said
scornfully. Peduzzi came down the steps. He felt hurt. Never mind, he
said, we can get it at the Concordia.

They walked down the road to the Concordia three abreast. On the
porch of the Concordia where the rusty bobsleds were stacked the
young gentleman said, _Was wollen sie?_ Peduzzi handed him the ten
lira note folded over and over. Nothing, he said, Anything. He was
embarrassed. Marsala maybe. I don’t know. Marsala?

The door of the Concordia shut on the young gentleman and the wife.
Three marsalas, said the y. g. to the girl behind the pastry counter.
Two you mean? she asked. No, he said, one for a _vecchio._ Oh, she
said, a _vecchio,_ and laughed getting down the bottle. She poured
out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses. The wife was
sitting at a table under the line of newspapers on sticks. The y. g.
put one of the marsalas in front of her. You might as well drink it,
he said. Maybe it’ll make you feel better. She sat and looked at the
glass. The y. g. went outside the door with a glass for Peduzzi but
could not see him.

I don’t know where he is, he said coming back into the pastry room
carrying the glass.

He wanted a quart of it, said the wife.

How much is a quarter litre, the y. g. asked the girl.

Of the bianco? One lira.

No, of the marsala. Put these two in too, he said giving her his own
glass and the one poured for Peduzzi. She filled the quarter litre
wine measure with a funnel. A bottle to carry it, said the y. g.

She went to hunt for a bottle. It all amused her.

I’m sorry you feel so rotten Tiny, he said, I’m sorry I talked the
way I did at lunch. We were both getting at the same thing from
different angles.

It doesn’t make any difference, she said. None of it makes any
difference.

Are you too cold, he asked. I wish you’d worn another sweater.

I’ve got on three sweaters.

The girl came in with a very slim brown bottle and poured the marsala
into it. The y. g. paid five lira more. They went out of the door.
The girl was amused. Peduzzi was walking up and down at the other end
out of the wind and holding the rods.

Come on, he said, I will carry the rods. What difference does it make
if anybody sees them. No one will trouble us. No one will make any
trouble for me in Cortina. I know them at the _municipio._ I have
been a soldier. Everybody in this town likes me. I sell frogs. What
if it is forbidden to fish? Not a thing. Nothing. No trouble. Big
trout I tell you. Lots of them.

They were walking down the hill toward the river. The town was in
back of them. The sun had gone under and it was sprinkling rain.
There, said Peduzzi, pointing to a girl in the doorway of a house
they passed. My daughter.

His doctor, the wife said, has he got to show us his doctor?

He said his daughter, said the y. g.

The girl went into the house as Peduzzi pointed.

They walked down the hill across the fields and then turned to follow
the river bank. Peduzzi talked rapidly with much winking and
knowingness. As they walked three abreast the wife caught his breath
across the wind. Once he nudged her in the ribs. Part of the time he
talked in D’Ampezzo dialect and sometimes in Tyroler German dialect.
He could not make out which the young gentleman and his wife
understood the best so he was being bi-lingual. But as the young
gentleman said _Ja Ja_ Peduzzi decided to talk altogether in Tyroler.
The young gentleman and the wife understood nothing.OUT OF SEASON


On the four lira he had earned by spading the hotel garden he got
quite drunk. He saw the young gentleman coming down the path and
spoke to him mysteriously. The young gentleman said he had not eaten
yet but would be ready to go as soon as lunch was finished. Forty
minutes or an hour.

At the cantina near the bridge they trusted him for three more
grappas because he was so confident and mysterious about his job for
the afternoon. It was a windy day with the sun coming out from behind
clouds and then going under in sprinkles of rain. A wonderful day for
trout fishing.

The young gentleman came out of the hotel and asked him about the
rods. Should his wife come behind with the rods? Yes, said Peduzzi,
let her follow us. The young gentleman went back into the hotel and
spoke to his wife. He and Peduzzi started down the road. The young
gentleman had a musette over his shoulder. Peduzzi saw the wife, who
looked as young as the young gentleman and was wearing mountain boots
and a blue beret, start out to follow them down the road carrying the
fishing rods unjointed one in each hand. Peduzzi didn’t like her to
be way back there. Signorina, he called, winking at the young
gentleman, come up here and walk with us. Signora come up here. Let
us all walk together. Peduzzi wanted them all three to walk down the
street of Cortina together.

The wife stayed behind, following rather sullenly. Signorina, Peduzzi
called tenderly, come up here with us. The young gentleman looked
back and shouted something. The wife stopped lagging behind, and
walked up.

Everyone they met walking through the main street of the town Peduzzi
greeted elaborately. _Buon’ di Arturo!_ Tipping his hat. The bank
clerk stared at him from the door of the Fascist café. Groups of
three and four people standing in front of the shops stared at the
three. The workmen in their stone-powdered jackets working on the
foundations of the new hotel looked up as they passed. Nobody spoke
or gave any sign to them except the town beggar, lean and old with a
spittle thickened beard, who lifted his hat as they passed.

Peduzzi stopped in front of a store with the window full of bottles
and brought his empty grappa bottle from an inside pocket of his old
military coat. A little to drink, some marsala for the Signora,
something, something to drink. He gestured with the bottle. It was a
wonderful day. Marsala, you like marsala, Signorina? A little
marsala?

The wife stood sullenly. You’ll have to play up to this, she said. I
can’t understand a word he says. He’s drunk isn’t he?

The young gentleman appeared not to hear Peduzzi. He was thinking
what in hell makes him say Marsala. That’s what Max Beerbohm drinks.

_Geld,_ Peduzzi said finally, taking hold of the young gentleman’s
sleeve. _Lire._ He smiled reluctant to press the subject but needing
to bring the young gentleman into action.

The young gentleman took out his pocket book and gave him a ten lire
note. Peduzzi went up the steps to the door of the Speciality of
Domestic and Foreign Wines shop. It was locked.

It is closed until two, someone passing in the street said
scornfully. Peduzzi came down the steps. He felt hurt. Never mind, he
said, we can get it at the Concordia.

They walked down the road to the Concordia three abreast. On the
porch of the Concordia where the rusty bobsleds were stacked the
young gentleman said, _Was wollen sie?_ Peduzzi handed him the ten
lira note folded over and over. Nothing, he said, Anything. He was
embarrassed. Marsala maybe. I don’t know. Marsala?

The door of the Concordia shut on the young gentleman and the wife.
Three marsalas, said the y. g. to the girl behind the pastry counter.
Two you mean? she asked. No, he said, one for a _vecchio._ Oh, she
said, a _vecchio,_ and laughed getting down the bottle. She poured
out the three muddy looking drinks into three glasses. The wife was
sitting at a table under the line of newspapers on sticks. The y. g.
put one of the marsalas in front of her. You might as well drink it,
he said. Maybe it’ll make you feel better. She sat and looked at the
glass. The y. g. went outside the door with a glass for Peduzzi but
could not see him.

I don’t know where he is, he said coming back into the pastry room
carrying the glass.

He wanted a quart of it, said the wife.

How much is a quarter litre, the y. g. asked the girl.

Of the bianco? One lira.

No, of the marsala. Put these two in too, he said giving her his own
glass and the one poured for Peduzzi. She filled the quarter litre
wine measure with a funnel. A bottle to carry it, said the y. g.

She went to hunt for a bottle. It all amused her.

I’m sorry you feel so rotten Tiny, he said, I’m sorry I talked the
way I did at lunch. We were both getting at the same thing from
different angles.

It doesn’t make any difference, she said. None of it makes any
difference.

Are you too cold, he asked. I wish you’d worn another sweater.

I’ve got on three sweaters.

The girl came in with a very slim brown bottle and poured the marsala
into it. The y. g. paid five lira more. They went out of the door.
The girl was amused. Peduzzi was walking up and down at the other end
out of the wind and holding the rods.

Come on, he said, I will carry the rods. What difference does it make
if anybody sees them. No one will trouble us. No one will make any
trouble for me in Cortina. I know them at the _municipio._ I have
been a soldier. Everybody in this town likes me. I sell frogs. What
if it is forbidden to fish? Not a thing. Nothing. No trouble. Big
trout I tell you. Lots of them.

They were walking down the hill toward the river. The town was in
back of them. The sun had gone under and it was sprinkling rain.
There, said Peduzzi, pointing to a girl in the doorway of a house
they passed. My daughter.

His doctor, the wife said, has he got to show us his doctor?

He said his daughter, said the y. g.

The girl went into the house as Peduzzi pointed.

They walked down the hill across the fields and then turned to follow
the river bank. Peduzzi talked rapidly with much winking and
knowingness. As they walked three abreast the wife caught his breath
across the wind. Once he nudged her in the ribs. Part of the time he
talked in D’Ampezzo dialect and sometimes in Tyroler German dialect.
He could not make out which the young gentleman and his wife
understood the best so he was being bi-lingual. But as the young
gentleman said _Ja Ja_ Peduzzi decided to talk altogether in Tyroler.
The young gentleman and the wife understood nothing.